--- 
layout: post
comments: false
title: Size 38
date: 2007-5-14
link: false
categories: health
---
Nearly eleven months after I set out to lose weight I have not only lost 50 pounds but managed to keep it off.  As a result many of my work clothes no longer fit.  I can still wear them, but I am swimming inside of them now.  At my peak weight I was wearing pants with a 44 inch waist line and using suspenders to hold them up.  Over the weekend, with some birthday money in hand, we went shopping for new work clothes.

I am happy to say that the first pair of size 40 pants I tried on were <em>too</em> big.  I was forced to go to a size 38.  And the 38 inch waist line isn't any too tight.  This was a huge boost to my self image.

For the past several months my weight has been hovering around 200 pounds; some days a bit lower and some days a bit higher.  Persistent back pain has prevented me from exercising very much at all and I think the inactivity has contributed to the slowing and stopping of my weight loss.  Half of eating less and doing more is to do more.  While I wish I was still losing a little weight I am pleased that my normal diet isn't putting any weight on me, regardless of my slothfulness.

Later this week I am expecting the results of an x-ray series of my lower back.  Hopefully we are eliminating structural problems like cracked vertebra or bulging or ruptured disks.  Even if we identify a structural problem at least then I'll know why my back isn't healing like I think it should.  Once I know what is (or isn't) wrong with my back then I can start a measured program of walking and mild exercise to strengthen it once again.
