---
date: '2007-05-28 20:09:42'
layout: post
comments: true
slug: '4'
status: publish
title: Health Benefits of Working For Yourself
wordpress_id: '4'
categories:
- Productivity
---

Probably one of the best things about working for yourself is the health benefits.  Many people are surprised to hear this but it really can have a profound effect on your life and it was really one of those totally unexpected ëbonuses' that came as a result of quitting my job.

How does quitting your job improve your health?  Here are a few ways:



	
  1. **You Actually Get Enough Sleep**
If you're like most Americans, you don't get enough sleep.  Many factors contribute to this, such as the long hours many companies require, rush hour traffic requiring you to leave earlier and earlier, and all those great programs on late night television (just kidding!).In all seriousness though, sleep deprivation is a big problem. As a result, many employees ending up drinking many cups of coffee or drinking caffeinated soda every morning to try and stay awake.  It usually doesn't work and can take it's toll on your body.While caffeine can make it difficult to fall asleep, it sure doesn't make it fun (or productive) to be awake.  The National Commission on Sleep Disorders estimates that sleep deprivation costs U.S. companies $150 Billion each year. Terrible disasters such as the Chernobyl nuclear reactor meltdown and the Exxon Valdez oil spill were both linked to extremely sleep deprived workers.When working for myself, do you think I feel guilty about taking a nap in the afternoon?  Of course not!  I'm my own boss and I know what's best for own body.  It's been a long time since I worked for someone, but being in a constant state of sleep deprivation is one thing I won't miss.By the way, if you find yourself wide awake at night, and totally exhausted during the day, you have something called delayed sleep phase syndrome.  I struggled with this for years when I was younger.  I talked with several doctors about it and it went unresolved for years.  Finally, a friend told me about light therapy you can use to reset your circadian rhythm (your biological clock).  If you suffer from this problem as well, you can check out the [home treatment](http://startbreakingfree.com/zl/page.php?id=8041) option I used.After all those years, this was the one thing that really helped me adjust my sleeping schedule.

	
  2. **Exercise**
Most people who I see enter high stress jobs (such as investment banking, consulting, and those in the medical field) end up gaining quite a bit of weight in their first year.  The reason is partially due to stress, but it's also because they can't find time to exercise.  I can remember coming home from a long day at the office (where I was sleepy all morning).  I made it through rush hour, and finally made it home.  About the LAST thing in the world I wanted to do at that point was drag myself to the gym because I was exhausted.Now that I work for myself, I exercise four or five times a week!  My favorite time to exercise is before lunch (10 or 11am) when I have lots of energy and an empty stomach.  Then I reward myself with something good for lunch.  Another great thing about exercising in the morning is that the gym is less crowded, and when I got to my martial arts classes, I get more one on one time with the instructor.  You see, everyone else has to exercise in the evening due to their work schedule, so those are the busiest times.

	
  3. **Eating Right**
The final way that being self-employed improves your health is by making it easier to eat right.  When I worked in the corporate world, we were always on the run.  I'd rush out of the house each morning, being lucky to grab a piece of toast as I was headed out the door.  Inevitably, by lunch time I'd be starving and we'd run down to a local restaurant or the food court where the meal options weren't quite ideal.  Finally, I'd make it home in the evening and often stop to grab some fast food.  You see, it was hard to find time to go the grocery store and even if I had everything I needed in the fridge, putting together a proper meal was tough after a long day.Fast forward to today where I eat small meals throughout the day.  Many health professionals recommend this as the healthiest way to eat.  Eating small meals has the advantage that (1) you are never hungry and (2) you never get sleepy after eating.  Whenever I'd eat a big lunch at work, my eyelids were feeling pretty heavy in the afternoon.  Now I have high energy and higher productivity by snacking as I work during the day. As I type this very letter I'm eating a left over salmon filet I grilled last night and just had a handful of almonds a minute ago.  Since I have time to go to the grocery store now and cook, I spend less money on food and eat healthier.  I haven't been to a fast food restaurant in more than a year.


I don't know anyone who would start a business solely for the health benefits, but it sure is a nice added bonus if you're thinking about working for yourself!
