--- 
layout: post
title: One Month
date: 2011-1-17
comments: true
categories: life
link: false
---
Sibylle and I moved into our new house just over a month ago. We are slowly gutting used to it; it feels less and less like a really fancy hotel suite and more like our home everyday.

The riot of boxes is largely hidden away either in the cavernous unfinished area downstairs, or in the third garage bay. Even though we, or friends of ours, packed everything, there are things we can't find yet. The iron, for example.

The master shower leak seems to have been fixed by redoing the grout at the base of the tile wall. Of course, this repair was after a hole was cut into the bedroom wall to check for leaks in the tubing. We are awaiting the drywall guys return to repair that wound, and then the painters to hide the repair.

The huge pile of dirt behind the house was neatly haul away right before the end of the year, so we'll have to wait for our builder's next foundation to be dug before the grading work behind the house can be completed. He next project is staked out, but we have no idea when digging will start.

We have set in to motion having a whole house humidifier added to the furnace, and we are in the midst of completing and order for cellular blinds for some of the windows. Once the drywall repairs, grading work outside, humidifier install, and binds install are done we'll likely bar the door and not let anyone into our house or our lives for a while. We need some time to just be here to fully appreciate the wonderfulness that is out new house.
