--- 
layout: post
comments: "false"
title: Mulligan
date: 2011-1-24
link: "false"
categories: life
---
In golf, and other sports, a <a title="Mulligan" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mulligan_(games)" target="_blank">mulligan</a> is a do-over or repeat of a spectacularly errant shot or play.

I'd like a mulligan for today.

Normally after I get up I turn my alarm off. Today I forgot and midway through my shower the phone started in bing-binging again. So, out of the shower, dripping all over the floor and counter to turn the alarm off. Not a terrible thing perhaps, but a portent of things to come as we shall see.

When I went to sit down at the breakfast table I discovered that Bootstrap had thrown up all over the neatly labeled and addressed bills that Sibylle prepared last night for mailing today. Also on the table, and part of the rug under the table. He's been throwing up more lately so we may have to take him to the vet to see what is upsetting him.

When I went to leave work to go to my Music Theory class I discovered the driver's side rear tire was a bit soft, so I detoured through the nearest gas station to add some air. After class, a mere 75 minutes after filling the tire, it was again a bit soft. Obviously we'd picked up something sharp. So I detoured to the local Honda dealer to have the tired repaired. Fortunately they was able to take the car right way. It's only 5 minutes from where we live so I called Sibylle and she came to pick me up for an early lunch.

After lunch I needed to take my cello with me for my lesson this afternoon, so we cleared out some of the things from the back of the Jimmy. While walking past the passenger side of the Jimmy I brushed against the outside mirror, and, you guessed it, it promptly fell off the car. We replaced the driver's side mirror last winter after it fell off the car. Apparently the plastic that mounts it to the car gets brittle with age. I used a pair of kitchen scissors to cut the wires and completely remove it. We'll have to schedule a trip to the local body shop for a new $130 side mirror.

All of this before noon today.

I'll take that mulligan now.
